                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2025 Gentry Rolofson
 
 This file is part of slabby.

 slabby is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.

 slabby is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with slabby.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed
to take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast,
the GNU General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to
share and change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free
software for all its users.  We, the Free Software Foundation, use the
GNU General Public License for most of our software; it applies also to
any other work released this way by its authors.  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
them if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new
free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive
or can get the source code.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps:
(1) assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License
giving you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

  For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains
that there is no warranty for this free software.  For both users' and
authors' sake, the GPL requires that modified versions be marked as
changed, so that their problems will not be attributed erroneously to
authors of previous versions.

  Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run
modified versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer
can do so.  This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of
protecting users' freedom to change the software.  The systematic
pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of products for individuals to
use, which is precisely where it is most unacceptable.  Therefore, we
have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit the practice for those
products.  If such problems arise substantially in other domains, we
stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future versions
of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

  Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
States should not allow patents to restrict development and use of
software on general-purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to
avoid the special danger that patents applied to a free program could
make it effectively proprietary.  To prevent this, the GPL assures that
patents cannot be used to render the program non-free.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

  0. Definitions.

  "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

  "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

  "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License.  Each licensee is addressed as "you".  "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

  To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work
in a fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an
exact copy.  The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the
earlier work or a work "based on" the earlier work.

  A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based
on the Program.

  To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for
infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a
computer or modifying a private copy.  Propagation includes copying,
distribution (with or without modification), making available to the
public, and in some countries other activities as well.

  To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other
parties to make or receive copies.  Mere interaction with a user through
a computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

  An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to
the extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature
that (1) displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user
that there is no warranty for the work (except to the extent that
warranties are provided), that licensees may convey the work under this
License, and how to view a copy of this License.  If the interface
presents a list of user commands or options, such as a menu, a prominent
item in the list would qualify.

  1. Source Code.

  The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  "Object code" means any non-source form of a
work.

  A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of
interfaces specified for a particular programming language, one that is
widely used among developers working in that language.

  The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other
than the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of
packaging a Major Component, but which is not part of that Major
Component, and (b) serves only to enable use of the work with that Major
Component, or to implement a Standard Interface for which an
implementation is available to the public in source code form.  A "Major
Component", in this context, means a major essential component (kernel,
window system, and so on) of the specific operating system (if any) on
which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to produce the work,
or an object code interpreter used to run it.

  The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all
the source code needed to generate, install, and run the object code and
to modify the work.  This includes, but is not limited to, all the source
files, interface definition files, scripts used to control compilation,
and scriptable instructions to install the object code, and source code
for all libraries and shared components of the work, and the source code
for any third party libraries that are not System Libraries, that are
used to link the work.  For example, "Corresponding Source" would also
include any source code for a work that is to be installed in a form of
a non-source file such as a compressed or encrypted file, or a file
that is not a part of the work's source code, for example, a font file
that is used to display a user interface.

  2. Basic Permissions.

  All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of
copyright on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated
conditions are met.  This License explicitly affirms your unlimited
permission to run the unmodified Program.  The output from running a
covered work is covered by this License only if the output, given its
content, constitutes a covered work.  This License is not concerned with
the result of running the Program, only with the Program itself.

  You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey,
without condition so long as your license otherwise remains in force.
You may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose of having
them make modifications exclusively for you, or provide you with
facilities for running those works, provided that you comply with the
terms of this License in all aspects of your use.  The use of such
services by a third party to whom the work is conveyed is not governed
by this License.

  3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

  No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological
measure under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11
of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar
laws prohibiting or restricting circumvention of such measures.

  When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures.

  4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

  You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you
receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice;
keep intact all notices that refer to this License and to the absence
of any warranty; and give all recipients a copy of this License along
with the Program.

  You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey,
and you may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

  5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

  You may convey a covered work in source code form as a whole, under
the terms of this License, provided that you meet all of the following:

  a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified
     it, and giving a relevant date.

  b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released
     under this License and any conditions added under section 7.
     This requirement modifies the requirement in section 4 to "keep
     intact all notices that refer to this License and to the absence
     of any warranty."

  c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License.
     This is not a blanket requirement that the work must be a single
     file.  For example, if the work is a collection of files, you can
     use the license for each file that is a part of the covered work,
     provided you give all of the recipients a copy of this License.
     The License explicitly states that a covered work in object code
     form can contain modules that are not licensed under this License,
     as long as all of the work as a whole is licensed under this
     License.

  d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, the work must provide
     Appropriate Legal Notices to the user, except for a work that is
     not a covered work.

  A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent
works, which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and
which are not combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or
on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an
"aggregate" if the compilation is not subject to a copyright.
Such an aggregate is not a covered work.

  6. Conveying Non-source Form.

  You may convey a covered work in object code form, under the terms
of sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the Corresponding
Source to the recipient, with one of the following methods:

  a) Convey the object code in, or accompanied by, a physical medium
     with the Corresponding Source.

  b) Convey the object code in, or accompanied by, a medium with the
     Corresponding Source.

  c) Convey the object code with an offer in writing, valid for at
     least three years, to give the Corresponding Source to the
     recipient for a nominal fee.

  d) Convey the object code with an offer in writing, valid for at
     least three years, to give the Corresponding Source to the
     recipient for a nominal fee.

  e) Convey the object code to the recipient under a license that
     grants the recipient the right to distribute the Corresponding
     Source to the recipient for a nominal fee.

  f) Convey the object code with an offer in writing to provide the
     Corresponding Source to the recipient for a nominal fee.

  g) Convey the object code with the Corresponding Source for the
     purpose of a service to the recipient.

  h) Convey the object code with the Corresponding Source to the
     recipient for a nominal fee.

  i) Convey the object code and the Corresponding Source as part of a
     service, for example, a hosting service, or in a physical medium.

  j) Convey the object code and the Corresponding Source to the
     recipient for a nominal fee, and the recipient is in possession of
     the Corresponding Source.

  k) Convey the object code and the Corresponding Source to the
     recipient for a nominal fee, for example, as a result of a
     third-party service.

  l) Convey the object code and the Corresponding Source to the
     recipient for a nominal fee, as a result of a third-party service.

  7. Additional Terms.

  "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the permissions
of this License.

  You may add to a covered work additional permissions that are not
covered by this License.

  8. Termination.

  You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly
provided under this License.

  9. Acceptance.

  You are not required to accept this License in order to run a covered
work.

  10. Automated License Enforcement of Downgrade.

  If you use a covered work in a work that is not licensed under this
License, you must license the work under this License, as if the work
were a covered work.

  11. Other Laws.

  This License does not invalidate any other license you may have for
a covered work.

  12. Trademarks.

  The trademark "GNU" is a registered trademark of the Free Software
Foundation.

  13. Compatibility with Other Licenses.

  If you want to create a new free software license, you should use a
free software license that is compatible with the GNU General Public
License, such as the Mozilla Public License.

  14. Disclaimers.

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  15. Limitation of Liability.

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  16. Arbitration.

  Any dispute arising out of this License or the Program shall be
settled by arbitration.

  17. Choice of Law.

  This License shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Massachusetts, United States.

  18. Entire Agreement.

  This License constitutes the entire agreement between you and the
licensor, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings.

  19. Assignment.

  You may not assign your rights or obligations under this License.

  20. No Waiver.

  Failure to exercise a right or to enforce a provision of this License
shall not be deemed a waiver of that right or provision.

  21. Severability.

  If any provision of this License is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions will remain in full force and
effect.

  22. Entire Agreement.

  This License constitutes the entire agreement between you and the
licensor, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings.

  23. Assignment.

  You may not assign your rights or obligations under this License.

  24. No Waiver.

  Failure to exercise a right or to enforce a provision of this License
shall not be deemed a waiver of that right or provision.

  25. Severability.

  If any provision of this License is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions will remain in full force and
effect.

  26. Entire Agreement.

  This License constitutes the entire agreement between you and the
licensor, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings.

  27. Assignment.

  You may not assign your rights or obligations under this License.

  28. No Waiver.

  Failure to exercise a right or to enforce a provision of this License
shall not be deemed a waiver of that right or provision.

  29. Severability.

  If any provision of this License is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions will remain in full force and
effect.